\input texinfo
@setfilename dockumentation.info

@settitle 3D Viewer v2.1

@copying
Copyright © 2022 hhullen21 Publishing
@end copying


@titlepage
@title 3D Viewer v2.1
@subtitle «CPP4_3DViewer_v2.1-0»
@author Hoshi Hullen

@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@headings off

@chapter Short app description

The application is to draw 3d models in wireframe, shaded, shadeframe view. The only one model can be loaded at the one time. As well, it is possible to rotate, move, scale model by 3 axes (X, Y and Z), and so on.

The application developed in C++ language. As a GUI creation technology chosen QT6 library with C++ underneath. The application source code located in the src folder and can be built with Makefile which contains standard set of targets for GNU-programs: all, install, uninstall, clean, dvi, dist, tests.

@chapter Interface

The application interface includes:
@enumerate
@item
View port: The main field of window where 3d model is to draw. Open new model can be executed by short-key (command + O) or from menubar (File -> Open new file).
@item
Steer panel: To open it is possible by short-key (commad + P) or from the menubar (View -> Steer panel). Steer panel may contains 5 widgets to manage model drawn which can be shown or hidden. Tt is possible to manage these widgets by menubar.
    @enumerate
    @item
    View -> Transform (command + 1) - to steer model position in view port (scale, XYZ position and angle).
    @item
    View -> View setup (command + 2) - to steer model style. Here, can be set projection type (perspective, orthogonal), drawing type (wireframe, shaded, shadeframe), shading type (shade, smooth), polygon color (untextured body color), edges style (solid line, stipple line, color, size), vertexes style (round point, square point, none, color, size), background color.
    @item
    View -> Lightning (commad + 3) - to manage lightning at scene. Here can be switched on/off light, set its power, color and XYZ position.
    @item
    View -> Texturing (commad + 4) - to add texture to model that have texture and normals coordinates. Here possible to add/remove texture and build UV map. To save UV map it is necessary to choose folder to save, color map lines and press "Save UV map" button. Then possible to open chosen directory to find saved map.
    @item
    View -> Screen (command + 5) - to take screenshot, record a GIF or record short screencast of rotatin model by Y axis. Here can be set folder to save media content and button to open this folder.
    @end enumerate
Steer panel implemented as dock-widget, so there is possibility to undock it from main window and move around display.
@item
Steering model by mouse: model can be rotated by mouse just with pressed left mouse button, scaled by just mouse wheel. Also, model can be moved by mouse with pressed left mouse button and space key simultaneously by X and Y axis and by space key simultaneously and wheel by Z axis.
@end enumerate

@chapter Instruction

To install the application the "make install" command execution is required in "src" folder. The application to launch will be located in "build" folder of the project root.

Uninstallation is done through execution "make uninstall" command. Thus, the executable file will be deleted from "build" folder.

Execution "make dist" command will build application if it is not, and put it into "tar" archive. The archive will be located in "build" folder of the project root.

@bye